docs: Publish Cortex v1.20.0 release blog post (#7218)
cortexproject/cortex: website/content/en/blog/2025/cortex-v1-20-0-release.md

author: The Cortex Team
---

We're thrilled to announce the release of **Cortex v1.20.0**! This version introduces several experimental features and enhancements that push the boundaries of scalable, multi-tenant metrics storage for Prometheus and OpenTelemetry. With 371 contributions from 38 contributors, including 14 new ones, this release focuses on improving performance, flexibility, and operational efficiency.

## Key Highlights

### Experimental Prometheus Remote Write 2.0 Support
Cortex now supports the experimental Prometheus Remote Write 2.0 protocol. This update enables more efficient data transmission, reducing overhead and improving ingestion performance for high-volume metrics environments. Users can benefit from better compression and faster writes, making it ideal for large-scale deployments.

### Parquet Format Support (Experimental)
A groundbreaking addition is experimental support for Parquet-based block storage. This includes:
- A new **Parquet converter service** to transform TSDB blocks into Parquet format.
- A **Parquet querier** for querying Parquet files directly.

> Parquet's columnar storage offers superior compression and query performance, especially for analytical workloads. This feature allows users to optimize storage costs and query speeds for historical data, potentially reducing infrastructure expenses by up to 50% in certain scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parquet's columnar storage offers superior compression and query performance, especially for analytical workloads. This feature allows users to optimize query speeds for historical data and storage footprint
```
I think parquet is great, but I am not sure it will save us that much in infrastructure. I think it improves query speed and storage footprint, but 50% savings sounds wild.

Or maybe there is something I don't know. Can you chime in @yeya24 here?

Reviewer 2: I am not sure where those numbers are coming from. I don't have specific number for this
